(DOCSP-27009) Add Realm React support to Open a Synced Realm (#2565)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/react-native/sync-data/open-a-synced-realm.txt

.. _react-native-realms:
.. _react-native-synced-realm:

===========================================
Configure a Synced Realm - React Native SDK
===========================================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

You can configure a realm to automatically synchronize data between many devices
that each have their own local copy of the data. 

For more information about synced realms, including directions on how to set up
sync in an App Services App, see :ref:`Atlas Device Sync Overview <sync>`.

Prerequisites
-------------

Before you open a realm with Flexible Sync in a React Native application:

#. :ref:`Configure Flexible Sync on the backend <enable-flexible-sync>`.
   You must configure Flexible Sync in the backend before you can use it with your
   client application.
#. :ref:`Initialize the App client <react-native-connect-to-mongodb-realm-backend-app>`.
#. :ref:`Authenticate a user <react-native-authenticate-users>` in your client project.

Open a Flexible Sync Realm
--------------------------

This section covers Flexible Sync realms. Flexible Sync is the preferred mode for

> new apps that use :ref:`Atlas Device Sync <sync>`. For information about Partition-Based
> realms, refer to the :ref:`Partition-Based Sync <react-native-partition-realms>`
> page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new apps that use :ref:`Atlas Device Sync <sync>`.

For information about realms using Partition-Based Sync, refer t :ref:`Partition-Based Sync <react-native-partition-realms>`.
```

By default, Realm syncs all data from the server before returning.
If you want to sync data in the background, read the :ref:`Open a Synced Realm
While Offline <react-native-open-synced-realm-offline>` section.

Nest <RealmProvider> within <AppProvider> and <UserProvider>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use a Flexible Sync realm and ``@realm/react``, you must nest ``<RealmProvider>``
within ``<UserProvider>``. And ``<UserProvider>`` must be nested in ``<AppProvider>``. 
This ensures that ``<RealmProvider>`` has all of the context it needs, like a 

> logged-in user.

Reviewer: can you also mention the fact that `<RealmProvider>` comes from `createReactContext()` here? it's in the code example. would make sense to also include in the copy.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync-full.tsx
   :language: javascript

For more information about configuring and using ``<AppProvider>``, check
out the :ref:`Connect To Atlas App Services page <react-native-app-client-configuration>`.

You can also find information about ``<UserProvider>`` on the
:ref:`Authenticate Users page <react-native-authenticate-users>`.

.. _react-native-flexible-sync-open-realm:

Configure a Flexible Sync Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To open a Flexible Sync realm, use ``@realm/react``'s ``createRealmContext()`` 
function and its returned ``<RealmProvider>``.

In a ``<RealmProvider>`` that's nested in a ``<UserProvider>``, add a ``sync`` 
property with a :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>` 
object that contains ``flexible: true``.

Note that ``<UserProvider>`` automatically passes an authenticated user
to ``<RealmProvider>``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync.tsx

>    :language: javascript

Reviewer: this code example should include getting the `<RealmProvider>` from `createRealmContext` to align w the copy above. would be also good to show the imports.

.. important:: Flexible Sync Requires a Subscription

   You can't use a Flexible Sync realm until you add at least one subscription.
   To learn how to add subscriptions, see: :ref:`<react-native-sync-add-subscription>`.

.. _react-native-open-synced-realm-offline:

Access a Synced Realm While Offline
-----------------------------------

> .. include:: /includes/offline-login.rst

Reviewer: i don't think the copy of this include does a particularly good job of explaining the behavior in a @realm/react context. perhaps replace the include with something like:

```suggestion
When your Realm application authenticates a user, it caches the user's credentials.
The ``<UserProvider>`` uses the cached user credentials, which you can use
to open a realm offline.
```

Reviewer: note also that removing the include seems to also remove the note  titled **Initial login requires a network connection**. that should be added back in manually.

The following subsections show how to use background synchronization to access a
realm while offline. To do this, use a cached user and an
:js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` object. 

Within ``<RealmProvider>``'s sync configuration, set the optional ``newRealmFileBehavior`` 
and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` fields to your ``OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration`` 
object to enable background synchronization. 

> You can open a realm immediately with background sync or after a timeout elapses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can open a realm immediately with background sync or after a timeout.
```

   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

You can configure a realm to automatically synchronize data between many devices
that each have their own local copy of the data. 

For more information about synced realms, including directions on how to set up
sync in an App Services App, see :ref:`Atlas Device Sync Overview <sync>`.

Before You Begin

> ----------------

Reviewer: i think this should be 'prerequisites' b/c we usually just do 'before you begin' for procedures.

Open a Flexible Sync Realm
--------------------------

This section covers Flexible Sync realms. Flexible Sync is the preferred mode for
new apps that use :ref:`Atlas Device Sync <sync>`. For information about Partition-Based
realms, refer to the :ref:`Partition-Based Sync <react-native-partition-realms>`
page.

By default, Realm syncs all data from the server before returning.
If you want to sync data in the background, read the :ref:`Open a Synced Realm
While Offline <react-native-open-synced-realm-offline>` section.

Nest <RealmProvider> within <AppProvider> and <UserProvider>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use a Flexible Sync realm and ``@realm/react``, you must nest ``<RealmProvider>``
within ``<UserProvider>``. And ``<UserProvider>`` must be nested in ``<AppProvider>``. 
This ensures that ``<RealmProvider>`` has all of the context it needs, like a 
logged-in user.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync-full.tsx
   :language: javascript

For more information about configuring and using ``<AppProvider>``, check

> out the :ref:`Connect To Atlas App Services page <react-native-app-client-configuration>`.

Reviewer: pls add a similar sentence about <UserProvider> also in this example and needed here

.. _react-native-flexible-sync-open-realm:

Configure a Flexible Sync Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To open a realm using Flexible Sync, use ``@realm/react``'s `React 
> Context objects <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ and Provider 

Reviewer: i don't think you need to mention that this is using React context. instead just say something like:

```suggestion
To open a realm using Flexible Sync, use ``@realm/react``'s ``createRealmContext()`` function and it's returned ``<RealmProvider>``.
```

> To open a realm using Flexible Sync, use ``@realm/react``'s `React 
> Context objects <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ and Provider 
> components.

Reviewer: i don't think you need to mention that this is using React context. instead just say something like:

```suggestion
To open a realm using Flexible Sync, use ``@realm/react``'s ``createRealmContext()`` function and it's returned ``<RealmProvider>``.
```

In a ``<RealmProvider>`` that's nested in a ``<UserProvider>``, pass a 
:js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object. Include the ``sync`` 
property with a :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>` 

> object that contains ``flexible: true``.

Reviewer: i think this copy should be refined since you're not really passing the whole configuration. you're just including the sync part of that configuration as a prop.

also must note that need to include the `user: Realm.User` prop.

   For more information on synced realms, including directions on how to set up
   sync in an App Services App, see :ref:`Atlas Device Sync Overview <sync>`.

> Open a Flexible Sync Realm

Reviewer: before this, consider adding a prerequisites section noting that have to create an app services app and enable device sync https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/2565/files#diff-196888303abdad875e578882d7233f2aa8e6968e3c2f67526be31c43ab909819R21-R22

--------------------------

By default, Realm syncs all data from the server before returning.
If you want to sync data in the background, read the :ref:`Open a Synced Realm

> While Offline <react-native-open-synced-realm-offline>` section.

Reviewer: think would be clearer to put this paragraph after the following one so that you introduce idea of flexible synced realm before this detail

> This section covers Flexible Sync realms. For information about Partition-Based

Reviewer: > This section covers Flexible Sync realms.

can you explain in a sentence what this means, and also link to the Flexible Sync docs in App Services.

realms, refer to the :ref:`Partition-Based Sync <react-native-partition-realms>`
page.

> Nesting Within <AppProvider> and <UserProvider>
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nest <RealmProvider> within <AppProvider> and <UserProvider>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

non-gerund preferred. also think clearer to have <RealmProvider> in title

To use a Flexible Sync realm and ``@realm/react``, you must nest ``<RealmProvider>``
within ``<UserProvider>``. And ``<UserProvider>`` must be nested in ``<AppProvider>``. 
This ensures that ``<RealmProvider>`` has all of the context it needs, like a 

> logged-in user.

Reviewer: could you also link to the pages about adding <UserProvider> and App Provider somewhere in this section?

Reviewer: maybe after the code example?

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync-full.tsx
   :language: javascript

.. _react-native-flexible-sync-open-realm:

Configure a Flexible Sync Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To open a realm using Flexible Sync, use ``@realm/react``'s `React 
Context objects <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ and Provider 

> components.

Reviewer: i think it needs to be clearer what's happening here, and how it relates to the rest of the config. 

this could be accomplished by including the call to the `createRealmContext` w/in the example below as well. and also clearer if also showing the wrapping w the AppProvider and UserProvider components.

and then could highlight the realm-y lines for emphasis.

smthn like:

```ts
// imports 
const {RealmProvider} = createRealmContext(/* some realm config */);

function AppWithRealm (){

  return (
    <AppProvider id={'id'}>
      <UserProvider fallback={<LogIn/>}>
        <RealmProvider sync={/*some sync config*/}>
          <RestOfApp/>
        <RealmProvider>
      </UserProvider>
    <AppProvider/>
  );
}

```

Reviewer: > and also clearer if also showing the wrapping w the AppProvider and UserProvider components.

this comment and the associated code example changes above also apply to the examples for 'Access Immediately with Background Sync' and 'Access After Timeout with Background Sync'

Author: Excellent point. Thanks for helping me see where to make this clearer. I think I spent too much time getting the tests to pass and had a hard time stepping back.

In a ``<RealmProvider>`` that's nested in a ``<UserProvider>``, pass a 
:js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object. Include the ``sync`` 
property with a :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>` 

> object that contains ``flexible:true``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
object that contains ``flexible: true``.
```

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync.tsx
   :language: javascript

.. important:: Flexible Sync Requires a Subscription

   You can't use a Flexible Sync realm until you add at least one subscription.
   To learn how to add subscriptions, see: :ref:`<react-native-sync-add-subscription>`.

> 

Reviewer: i wonder if there's a more integrated way that we can talk about opening flex sync realm and adding subscriptions together, since they're so closely related. for example, maybe it'd be better to have a single page 'Configure a Flexible Synced Realm' with this info about opening realm and then adding flexible sync subscriptions.

with this being said, i think this would be something for the React Native SDK docs upgrade epic, or even some later work. **definitely out of scope for this PR.**

Author: Great suggestion! I agree, and think there are are probably a few other places like this in the RN docs that we could improve.

Author: Filed a Jira ticket to track: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-28247

Open a Synced Realm

> -------------------

Reviewer: taking the [below comment about partition based sync](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/2565/files#r1106380057) into account, could you re-orient this section to be more clearly only about flexible sync? 

and then maybe a note pointing to the partition based sync content.

-----------------------------------

.. include:: /includes/offline-login.rst

The following subsections show how to use background synchronization to access a
realm while offline. To do this, use a cached user and an
:js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` object. 

Within ``<RealmProvider>``'s Sync Configuration, set the optional ``newRealmFileBehavior`` 
and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` fields to your ``OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration`` 
object to enable background synchronization. 

You can open a realm immediately with background sync or after a timeout elapses 
using either Flexible or Partition-Based Sync.

.. _react-native-open-immediately-with-background-sync:

Access Immediately with Background Sync
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may want to sync changes in the background to display partial data to the
user while the synced realm downloads data from the server, preventing the
user experience from being blocked. We recommend syncing changes in the
background for applications in which the user's device may go offline. To sync
changes in the background, open a synced realm synchronously.

> .. TODO: Realm reactify these paras and turn them into an ordered list

Reviewer 2: This todo is finished right?

Author: Whoops! Yes, thanks for pointing that out. 😆

.. _react-native-partition-sync-open-realm:

Configure a Partition-Based Sync Realm

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: can you move this section to the new partition based sync page as well?

To configure a Partition-Based Sync realm, follow the diretions for configuring

> a Flexible Sync realm. However, do not include ``flexible:true`` in your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a Flexible Sync realm. However, do not include ``flexible: true`` in your 
```

``SyncConfiguration.`` Instead, add the ``partitionValue`` property and set its

> value to the name of your partition.

Reviewer: note: when you move this content to partition based sync page, this line will probably have to change to not highlight contrast w flex sync.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.partition-based-config.tsx
   :language: javascript

> 

Reviewer: can you move this to the new partitioned based sync page?

.. _react-native-open-synced-realm-offline:

Access a Synced Realm While Offline
-----------------------------------

.. include:: /includes/offline-login.rst

The following subsections show how to use background synchronization to access a
realm while offline. To do this, use a cached user and an
:js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` object. 

> Within ``<RealmProvider>``'s Sync Configuration, set the optional ``newRealmFileBehavior`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within ``<RealmProvider>``'s sync configuration, set the optional ``newRealmFileBehavior`` 
```

and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` fields to your ``OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration`` 
object to enable background synchronization. 

You can open a realm immediately with background sync or after a timeout elapses 

> using either Flexible or Partition-Based Sync.

Reviewer: is this necessary? i would assume it's both unless otherwise stated.

.. _react-native-open-immediately-with-background-sync:

Access Immediately with Background Sync
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may want to sync changes in the background to display partial data to the
user while the synced realm downloads data from the server, preventing the
user experience from being blocked. We recommend syncing changes in the
background for applications in which the user's device may go offline. To sync

> changes in the background, open a synced realm synchronously.

Reviewer: why indented?

Reviewer: looks like that's from before, but might as well change while in here.

Author: I'm not sure what you're referring to. What is indented?
